.TH LUMO 1 "May 2024" "Lumo 1.0.1" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
lumo \- AI-powered CLI assistant

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lumo
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
[\fICOMMAND\fR]
[\fIARGUMENTS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Lumo
is an intelligent CLI assistant that interprets natural language to help you navigate the terminal with ease. It bridges the gap between natural language and terminal commands using advanced AI models.

Lumo can process natural language queries, execute shell commands, provide system information, run internet speed tests, manage clipboard operations, create projects from templates, and more.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Display version information and exit.

.SH COMMANDS
Lumo supports various command prefixes that determine how your input is processed:

.SS Natural Language Queries
When no specific prefix is used, Lumo treats your input as a natural language query:
.PP
.B lumo "\fIYour question here\fR"

.SS Agent Mode
Agent mode allows Lumo to execute a sequence of commands autonomously:
.TP
.B lumo auto:\fITASK\fR
.TP
.B lumo agent:\fITASK\fR
Execute a sequence of commands as an agent to accomplish the specified task.

.SS Chat Mode
Chat mode provides a conversational interface:
.TP
.B lumo chat
Start interactive chat mode.
.TP
.B lumo chat:\fIMESSAGE\fR
.TP
.B lumo talk:\fIMESSAGE\fR
Start or continue a conversation with the specified message.
.TP
.B lumo ask:\fIQUESTION\fR
.TP
.B lumo ai:\fIQUESTION\fR
Ask a specific question without entering chat mode.

.SS Shell Commands
Execute shell commands directly:
.TP
.B lumo lumo:\fICOMMAND\fR
.TP
.B lumo shell:\fICOMMAND\fR
Execute the specified shell command.

.SS System Health
Check system health and generate reports:
.TP
.B lumo health
Get a basic health report.
.TP
.B lumo system
Get a detailed system report.
.TP
.B lumo health:\fICOMPONENT\fR
.TP
.B lumo syshealth:\fICOMPONENT\fR
Check a specific system component (memory, disk, cpu, network).
.TP
.B lumo report:\fITYPE\fR
.TP
.B lumo sysreport:\fITYPE\fR
Generate a report with specific focus (performance, security, storage).

.SS Internet Speed Testing
Test your internet connection speed:
.TP
.B lumo speed
Run a complete speed test.
.TP
.B lumo speed:\fITYPE\fR
.TP
.B lumo speedtest:\fITYPE\fR
.TP
.B lumo speed-test:\fITYPE\fR
Test a specific aspect of your connection (download, upload).

.SS Clipboard Operations
Manage clipboard content:
.TP
.B lumo clipboard
Show current clipboard contents.
.TP
.B lumo clipboard "\fITEXT\fR"
Copy text to clipboard.
.TP
.B lumo clipboard append "\fITEXT\fR"
Append text to existing clipboard content.
.TP
.B lumo clipboard clear
Clear clipboard contents.

.SS Project Creation
Create new projects from templates:
.TP
.B lumo create
Show help for the create command.
.TP
.B lumo create:"\fIDESCRIPTION\fR"
Create a new project based on the description.

.SS Magic Commands
Run fun magic commands:
.TP
.B lumo magic:\fICOMMAND\fR
Execute a magic command (e.g., dance, help).

.SS Configuration Commands
Configure Lumo settings:
.TP
.B lumo config:provider list
List available AI providers.
.TP
.B lumo config:provider show
Show current AI provider.
.TP
.B lumo config:provider set \fIPROVIDER\fR
Set AI provider (gemini, openai, ollama).
.TP
.B lumo config:model list
List available models for the current provider.
.TP
.B lumo config:model show
Show current model.
.TP
.B lumo config:model set \fIMODEL\fR
Set model for current provider.
.TP
.B lumo config:key show
Show API key status.
.TP
.B lumo config:key set \fIPROVIDER\fR \fIKEY\fR
Set API key for a provider.
.TP
.B lumo config:key remove \fIPROVIDER\fR
Remove API key for a provider.
.TP
.B lumo config:ollama show
Show current Ollama URL.
.TP
.B lumo config:ollama set \fIURL\fR
Set Ollama URL.
.TP
.B lumo config:ollama test
Test connection to Ollama server.

.SS File Transfer with Connect
Transfer files between machines:
.TP
.B lumo connect \-\-receive
Start a server to receive files.
.TP
.B lumo connect \-\-receive \-\-port \fIPORT\fR
Start a server on a specific port.
.TP
.B lumo connect \-\-receive \-\-path \fIDIRECTORY\fR
Specify a custom download directory.
.TP
.B lumo connect \fIIP_ADDRESS\fR
Connect to a peer to send/receive files.
.TP
.B lumo connect \fIIP_ADDRESS\fR:\fIPORT\fR
Connect to a peer on a specific port.
.TP
.B lumo connect \fIIP_ADDRESS\fR \-\-path \fIDIRECTORY\fR
Connect to a peer with a custom download directory.
.TP
.B lumo connect \-\-help
Show connect command help.

.SS Pipe Support
Analyze command output by piping it to Lumo:
.PP
\fICOMMAND\fR | \fBlumo\fR

.SH AGENT MODE REPL COMMANDS
When in the Agent Mode REPL interface, the following commands are available:
.TP
.B run
Execute the current plan.
.TP
.B refine \fIPROMPT\fR
Modify the plan using natural language.
.TP
.B add \fICOMMAND\fR
Add a new step to the plan.
.TP
.B edit \fINUM\fR
Edit a specific step in the plan.
.TP
.B delete \fINUM\fR
Remove a step from the plan.
.TP
.B move \fINUM\fR \fIPOS\fR
Reorder steps in the plan.
.TP
.B help
Show available commands.
.TP
.B exit
Exit without executing.

.SH CHAT MODE COMMANDS
When in the interactive Chat Mode, the following commands are available:
.TP
.B \fIMESSAGE\fR
Send a message to the AI.
.TP
.B help
Show help information.
.TP
.B clear
Clear conversation history.
.TP
.B history
Display conversation history.
.TP
.B new
Start a new conversation.
.TP
.B list
List all conversations.
.TP
.B switch \fIID\fR
Switch to another conversation.
.TP
.B delete \fIID\fR
Delete a conversation.
.TP
.B exit
Exit chat mode.

.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Natural Language Queries
.PP
.nf
# Get help with finding files
lumo "How do I find files by content in Linux?"

# Get help with a specific command
lumo "How to use grep with regular expressions?"

# Get explanations for technical concepts
lumo "What's the difference between TCP and UDP?"
.fi

.SS Agent Mode
.PP
.nf
# Create a backup of documents
lumo auto:create a backup of my documents folder

# Find and analyze large files
lumo agent:find all large files in the current directory and show their types

# Set up a development environment
lumo agent:set up a python virtual environment with flask and sqlalchemy
.fi

.SS Chat Mode
.PP
.nf
# Start interactive chat mode
lumo chat

# Ask a direct question in chat format
lumo chat:Tell me about Linux file permissions

# Ask a specific question without entering chat mode
lumo ask:What is the capital of France?
.fi

.SS Shell Commands
.PP
.nf
# Execute a shell command directly
lumo lumo:ls -la

# Execute another shell command
lumo shell:find . -name "*.go" -type f
.fi

.SS System Health
.PP
.nf
# Get a basic health report
lumo health

# Check specific system components
lumo health:memory
lumo health:disk

# Generate a report with specific focus
lumo report:performance
.fi

.SS Internet Speed Testing
.PP
.nf
# Run a complete speed test
lumo speed

# Test only download speed
lumo speed:download

# Test only upload speed
lumo speed:upload
.fi

.SS Clipboard Operations
.PP
.nf
# Show current clipboard contents
lumo clipboard

# Copy text to clipboard
lumo clipboard "Hello World"

# Append text to existing clipboard content
lumo clipboard append "More text"
.fi

.SS Project Creation
.PP
.nf
# Create a Flutter project with BLoC architecture
lumo create:"Flutter app with bloc architecture"

# Create a Next.js project with Redux
lumo create:"Next.js app with Redux state management"

# Create a FastAPI project
lumo create:"FastAPI project with SQLAlchemy"
.fi

.SS File Transfer with Connect
.PP
.nf
# Start a server to receive files
lumo connect --receive

# Connect to a peer to send/receive files
lumo connect 192.168.1.5

# Connect to a peer on a specific port
lumo connect 192.168.1.5:9000
.fi

.SS Pipe Support
.PP
.nf
# Analyze directory contents
ls -la | lumo

# Explain error logs
cat error.log | lumo

# Analyze JSON data
cat data.json | lumo
.fi

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/lumo/config.json
Configuration file that stores user preferences, API keys, and other settings.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B LUMO_AI_PROVIDER
Sets the AI provider to use (gemini, openai, ollama).
.TP
.B LUMO_GEMINI_API_KEY
Sets the API key for Google Gemini.
.TP
.B LUMO_OPENAI_API_KEY
Sets the API key for OpenAI.
.TP
.B LUMO_OLLAMA_URL
Sets the URL for the Ollama server.
.TP
.B LUMO_ENABLE_AGENT_MODE
Enables or disables agent mode.
.TP
.B LUMO_DEBUG
Enables or disables debug mode.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR curl (1),
.BR jq (1),
.BR grep (1),
.BR find (1)

.SH BUGS
Report bugs to: https://github.com/agnath18/lumo/issues

.SH AUTHOR
Written by agnath18K <agnath18@gmail.com>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 agnath18K. License MIT: <https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT>.
